The CMR analysis for open populations will turn largely toward the study of survival. (R. Pradell, 1996). A more traditional way of measuring population size will be modified by the researchers for this study.
Panguil Bay, is located in the northwestern part of Mindanao. It covers approximately 18,000 hectares of water area and has a total coastline measuring 116 km from Clarin, Miasamis Occidental to Brgy. Liangan, Maigo, Lanao del Norte (FAO 133).  The aquatic habitats in Panguil Bay possess economically and ecologically important  floral and faunal species  (Roxas, Abrea, & Uy, 2009)and was considered one of richest fishing grounds in Mindanao and habitat to indigenous fisheries species such as tiger prawn(sugpo), marine water shrimps (hipon), mud crab (alimango) and other kind of shells which are commercially important.(Galvez, 2015)
The mud crabs, Scylla spp. is a very important component of smallscale fisheries in many tropical and subtropical Asian countries which is subjected to overexploitation in the recent years. (Angell 1992; Keenan 1999). Mud crab genus Scylla is a large portunid crab which occurs in estuaries and mangrove swamps throughout the Indo-Pacific regions (Macnae, 1968; Hill, 1976) and Indian Ocean, including Japan, China, Philippines, Indonesia, Australia and Southeast Africa (Sakai, 1976). In Indonesia the genus Scylla is widely distributed from west (Sumatera) to east (Irian Jaya). It forms an important crab fishery in many coastal areas where there are extensive mangrove swamps and brackish waters (La Sara, 2001a). Of the four species of Scylla (Keenan et al, 1995; 1998; Keenan, 1999), S. serrata, S. olivacea and S. tranquebarica are common in Indonesia following geographical position (La Sara, 2001b)
According to B.Q Bengzon and B.S Francisco from Coastal Resources Management in Panguil Bay, Panguil Bay is one of the most ecologically significant favoured fishing grounds in Southern Philippines. There has been a very rapid growth in the populations fishing bourg and increase number of fishing craft but unfortunately declined. Other resources particularly the mangroves are continuously threatened by fishpond development and other uses resulting in a significant decline in cover to only 4.36% of the estimated cover in 1950. (P.Roxas., R. Abrea., W. Uy, 2009). This Mud crabs of the genus Scylla are commercially important mangrove residents that are extensively ﬁshed throughout their range in the Indo West Paciﬁc (L. Le Vay, 2007)
 In southeast Asia they support craftsmen ﬁsheries that provide a valuable source of income for the coastal communities (Arriola 1940; Macintosh et al. 1993; Overton et al. 1997; Le Vay et al. 2001; Overton and Macintosh 2002; Walton et al. 2006a, b). The increase of market price, the eager the ease of capture and small initial disbursement for gear has led to over ﬁshing in some countries (Kosuge 2001). The situation is exacerbated by sprouting demand fuelled by increasing standards of living in the major consumer countries such as Singapore, Malaysia, China and Taiwan (Liong 1995). Moreover in the last decade the demand for whelp crabs has increased to supply the expansion in aquaculture production (Le Vay et al. 2001). As a result, in heavily ﬁshed populations, it has been reported that there is a reduction in maximum sizes and decreases in crab landings (Angell 1992). Both habitat restitution and stock enhancement have been suggested as approaches to alleviating effects of overﬁshing and environmental degradation on mud crab populations (Le Vay 2001; Walton et al. 2006a; Walton et al., in press).
Data regarding the mark-recapture probability of mud crabs is needed before biologging is to be conducted  in Panguil Bay. Understanding and observing their patterns would help in their management and conservation .

1.2 Statement of the problem
 The declining population of mud crabs due to over exploitation and other interventions is  one of the threats being faced by the municipality and even the local people in Panguil Bay who are relying on  Mud crab industry as a source of income.
The need for conservation and management of this species is important. However, in order to to these things, information such as their movement ecology, behavior, mortality and population dynamics are highly needed, which is difficult unless advance methods such as biologging would be applied.
In order for biologging to be conducted in Panguil bay, an established data should be present to guarantee its applicability and  prevent wasting of resources.
1.3 Objective of the study
  1.3.1 General Objective
The main objective of this study is to know the applicability of biologging in the mud crabs found in Panguil Bay by using a mark-recapture probability data as the baseline information.
1.3.2 Specific Objectives
The study specifically aims to:
1.	Provide information regarding the mark-recapture probability of mud crabs in Panguil Bay
2.	Serve as a baseline information  in the light of the proposed studies about biologging  in Panguil Bay
1.4 Significance of the Study
	Visual observation is a basic and very important technique in understanding the behavior of organisms. However, direct observation to the wildlife is difficult due to the high mobility of animals and the limitation of human’s ability to follow them to the deepest parts of the oceans.(Arai et al. , 2012).Good thing, a breakthrough in technology had eradicated this hindrance.
Biologging a method wherein animals are being tagged and tracked with remote instruments have provided scientist the most efficient and accurate way of assessing a species movement ecology and habitat-use and behavior.(Kraska, Crespo , &Johnston, 2015) As efficient as it seems this method is highly expensive.(Rutz  et al. ,  2009) The main reason why this kind of method could not be applied without any basis for its applicability to prevent resource wasting.
The results of this study would serve as a baseline information  for the applicability of biologging in the mud crabs found in panguil Bay. Biologging is of paramount importance to know their movement ecology , mortality and behavior since their population in the area s  observed to be declining which could be associated with the declining  mangrove cover due to human interventions.(Roxa et al. ,2009)Information  that will be derived from biologging would greatly help in the conservation and management of these economically and ecologically important species. 
1.5 Scope and Limitations
The scope of this study includes the species under genus Scylla as subjects of the mark-recapture method. The area would only be limited within the premises of Panguil Bay. The period for the study would be three months.
1.6 Definition of Terms
Alleviating (verb)- refers to a reduction of effects from excessive use of fishing and degradation
of environment on mud crab populations (Le Vay 2001; Walton et al. 2006a; Walton    et al., in press).
Bourg (noun)- is a fishing village (B.Q Bengzon & B.S Francisco 1993)
Craft-  refers to a fishing skills of  people (B.Q Bengzon & B.S Francisco 1993)
Disbursement- refers to a small amount of money to spend for gears (Kosuge 2001).
Dynamics- is the variation of population of the Scylla species. (L. Le Vay, 2007)
Exacerbated- making the situation even more worse (Liong 1995).
Restitution -restoration of habitat that being damage (Le Vay 2001; Walton et al. 2006a; Walton et al., in press).
Sprouting- it is a growing demand in order to increase the standard living of major consumers (Liong 1995).
Whelp- refers to the juvenile crabs (Le Vay et al. 2001)
2. Review Related Literature
	Breakthroughs in technology have aided the scientist in their study of the  ecology, behavior and almost everything about  the animals which were before impossible from their grasp of knowledge. Biologging, a technique  which enables researchers to visually observe the behavior of wildlife animals and have an accurate way of measuring their population size, has become the subject for a lot of research. A study in Hatoma Island, located southwest of Okinawa,Japan was conducted ( see Sato, Yoseda, Abe, Dan, &Hamasaki, 2013)
 to determine the growth pattern of  a harvested species toward a proper assessment and suitable management stock.
 	There are also studies which are using biologging technique in  endangered species research and animal conservation with regards to the IUCN Red List threat assessments.(see Cooke, 2008) This study was to aid in the  causes of population decline  and the threats being faced by the endangered speceies.
	There are also more traditional way of measuring the population size, the capture-mark-recapture method. A method used in the study of the population size of Horseshow Crab  in Long Island Sound..(see Mattei, 2008). Using  US Fish and Wildlife disc tags to tag the horseshow .
These kind of method would be  very useful in observing and assessing organisms, especially those which are facing threat. A study conducted in Panguil Bay, Philippines ( see Roxa et al. , 2009) indicated that interventions such as development of fishponds had negatively harmed the coastal habitats in Panguil Bay including the mangrove habitat wherein  a lot of mud crabs could be found.
	The results of this paper would determine the applicability of biologging in Panguil Bay, a method which is highly needed for the conservation and management of these declining species.
